# Environment Setup

Welcome to the GenAI Roadmap! This roadmap is intended to assist you in setting up your environment so you can start learning. We'll walk through the process step-by-step, ensuring that you have everything in place for a seamless experience.

## Table of Contents

- [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
  - [Software Dependencies](#software-dependencies)
  - [API Access Dependencies](#api-access-dependencies)
- [Setup Instructions](#setup-instructions)
  - [Create and Activate a Virtual Environment](#step-1-create-and-activate-a-virtual-environment)
  - [Clone the Repository](#step-2-clone-the-repository)
  - [Integrating Virtual Environment with Jupyter Notebook in VSCode](#step-3-integrating-virtual-environment-with-jupyter-notebook-in-vscode)
  - [Install Requirements](#step-4-install-requirements)
- [Miscellaneous](#miscellaneous)
  - [gitignore](#gitignore)
  - [requirements.txt](#requirements.txt)

## Prerequisites

### Software Libraries

Before we begin, make sure your system is equipped with the following essential tools:

- **Python (3.8 or higher)**
    - If you're new to Python, it's a versatile programming language. We'll use it for our workshop.
    - [Download Python](https://www.python.org/downloads)

- **Pip**
    - Pip stands for "Pip Installs Packages." It's a package manager for Python, allowing us to install libraries and tools.
    - [How to Install Pip](https://packaging.python.org/en/latest/guides/installing-using-pip-and-virtual-environments/#installing-pip)

- **Virtualenv**
    - A tool to create isolated Python environments. It ensures that the project has its own set of dependencies.
    - [How to Install Virtualenv](https://packaging.python.org/en/latest/guides/installing-using-pip-and-virtual-environments/#installing-virtualenv)

- **Git**
    - Git is a version control system, letting multiple people work on projects collaboratively.
    - [How to Install Git](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-Installing-Git)

- **Visual Studio Code** (or any other IDE of your choice e.g. PyCharm)
    - A popular code editor with support for many programming languages.
    - [Download & Installation](https://code.visualstudio.com/Download)


### API Access Dependencies

To interact with the OpenAI generative models we will be using Azure. Make sure you have the following:

- An active **Azure OpenAI account** with its **endpoint URL** and **API key**.
- Access to the `text-curie-001`, `text-davinci-002`, and `text-davinci-003` base models on the Azure OpenAI endpoint.
- You can access the official [Azure OpenAI Git repository](https://github.com/Azure/azureopenai).


## Setup Instructions

### Step 1: Create and Activate a Virtual Environment

Using a Python virtual environment is analogous to creating an isolated workspace for each of your projects. This encapsulation ensures that each project has its own set of dependencies, libraries, and Python versions, independent of others. Such an environment prevents potential conflicts between package versions and ensures the consistent behavior of software across different setups. Whether you're developing multiple projects with varying requirements or aiming for a conflict-free deployment, a virtual environment provides the sandboxing necessary to keep your Python ecosystems clean and manageable. Setting up a virtual environment is crucial to ensure that the libraries we use don't interfere with other projects. 

- [Creating a Virtual Environment](https://packaging.python.org/en/latest/guides/installing-using-pip-and-virtual-environments/#creating-a-virtual-environment)
- [Activating the Virtual Environment](https://packaging.python.org/en/latest/guides/installing-using-pip-and-virtual-environments/#activating-a-virtual-environment)

#### For Windows Users:

1. **Creating a Virtual Environment**:
   Open your Command Prompt and navigate to the directory where you want your virtual environment. Then, run:
   ```bash
   python -m venv myenv
   ```

   This will create a new virtual environment named 'myenv' (you can choose another name if you prefer).
2. **Activating the Virtual Environment**:
   - Using command prompt:
   ```bash
    myenv\Scripts\activate
    ```
    - Using PowerShell:
    ```bash
    .\myenv\Scripts\Activate.ps1
    ```
#### For macOS Users:
1. **Creating a Virtual Environment:**
    Open your Terminal and navigate to the directory where you want your virtual environment. Then, run:
    ```bash
    python3 -m venv myenv
    ```
    This creates a new virtual environment named 'myenv'.

2. **Activating the Virtual Environment:**
    In the Terminal, run:
    ```bash
    source myenv/bin/activate
    ```
    After activation, your command line or terminal prompt should change to show the name of the activated environment. Now, any Python libraries you install while the environment is activated will only affect that environment.
    > **Note**: The above command assumes the default macOS Terminal. If you're using a different shell or terminal application, the activation command might differ. For example, if you're using the Z shell (zsh), run:
    > ```bash
    > source myenv/bin/activate.zsh
    > ```
    > If you're using the PowerShell, run:
    > ```bash
    > source myenv/bin/Activate.ps1
    > ```


### Step 2: Clone the Repository

To access workshop materials, download the repository:

```bash
git clone "ToDo: add link to my repository on GitHub"
```

### Step 3: Integrating Virtual Environment with Jupyter Notebook in VSCode
To associate your virtual environment with a Jupyter Notebook in Visual Studio Code, follow these steps:

1. **Selecting the Python Interpreter**:
   - Open any python notebook in VSCode.
   - On the top-right of VSCode, click the icon to select a kernel.

   - Choose **Python Environments** from the menu.

   - Pick your virtual environment (usually `.venv` or `myenv`).

2. **Confirmation**:
   - Confirm that the name of your virtual environment is now displayed on the top-right corner of the Jupyter Notebook editor window in VSCode.



### Step 4: Install Requirements
Navigate to the project folder and install the required libraries:
```bash
cd azureopenai
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Miscellaneous

### gitignore

A `.gitignore` file is a plain text file that tells Git which files or folders to ignore in a project. It's a good practice to include a `.gitignore` file in your project to avoid accidentally committing files that shouldn't be tracked. For example, you might want to exclude log files, build artifacts, or user-specific files from being committed. For example, if you're using a virtual environment, you might want to exclude the `venv` or `myvenv` folder from being tracked. Also if you are using `.env` file to store your credentials, you might want to exclude it from being tracked.
Create a `.gitignore` file in the root directory of your project and add the following lines to it:
```bash
# Virtual environment
myvenv

# Credentials
.env
```

### requirements.txt

A `requirements.txt` file is a plain text file that lists the libraries and their versions required for a project. It's a good practice to include a `requirements.txt` file in your project to ensure that the libraries you use are consistent across different setups. For example, if you're using a virtual environment, you might want to include a `requirements.txt` file to ensure that the libraries you use are consistent across different setups.



Congratulations! Now you're all set! Enjoy your learning experience in the GenAI roadmap!